When the Ad:tech advertising technology conference hits New York next week, marketers, advertising agencies and recruiters may spend less time listening to the panelists and more time working the floor to find new employees.Enlarge This ImagePeter DaSilva for The New York TimesEdwin Lee of MediaMath said he helped companies with subjects "they don't really understand."Add to PortfolioGoogle IncOmnicom Group IncGo to your Portfolio ÈA talent gap is growing between the skills that many new advertising jobs require and the number of people who have those skills. The dilemma, one familiar to many industries across the country, is particularly acute for jobs that require hard-core quantitative, mathematical and technical skills.The talent pool, advertising technology company executives say, is not a deep one. And those who have the skills are in high demand, often fetching annual salaries that can reach $100,000."There is pain for hiring in digital at all levels," said John Ebbert, managing editor of AdExchanger.com, a Web site dedicated to advertising technology."The marketers, the publishers, the ad tech companies, the agencies, data management companies - they're all going for the same type of employee."The job board on AdExchanger, which is updated every 45 days, has postings for positions with titles like "Yield Optimization Manager" and "Director of Platform Marketing." The number of jobs on the board has nearly doubled in the past year, Mr. Ebbert said, to 80 jobs every 45 days from 40.The digital talent gap is driven in part by the enormous amount of user data that ad tech companies are collecting for agencies and marketers - data that is instrumental in directing ads to consumers and analyzing trends. New hires are needed for a variety of tasks, including writing code, creating digital advertisements, Web site development and statistical analysis."The demand has far outstripped the supply," said Joe Zawadzki, the chief executive of MediaMath, an ad tech company in New York. "The number of things that you need to know is high and the number of people that have grown up knowing it is low."Mr. Zawadzki said that as of last week his company had 13 positions open and had gone to job boards, recruiters and even hosted technology-focused meet-ups to find people. In September, the company hired its first senior vice president for human capital to help with recruitment.